1.Difference between QA and QC ?

* QA (Quality Assurance) :
     Quality Assurance (QA) is a proactive, process-oriented approach that aims to prevent defects by improving
     development processes. 

Approach : Proactive; focuses on preventing defects.
Focus    : The process and system used tocreate the product.
Goal     : To improve the development process and prevent future errors.
Timeline : Occurs throughout the entire product lifecycle, before and during development.
Responsibility : Involves the entire team.
Activities : Process planning, setting standards,code reviews, and training.

* QC (Quality Control) :
   Quality Control (QC) is a reactive, product-oriented approach that aims to detect and correct defects.

Approach : Reactive; focuses on finding and correcting defects
Focus    : The final product itself.
Goal     : To identify and fix defects in the current product. 
Timeline : Primarily occurs at the end of the development cycle, during the testing phase.
Responsibility : Usually performed by a dedicated quality control team or specific personnel.
Activities : Inspections, testing, bug fixing, and user acceptance testing.

2.Explain in detail about STLC ?

1.Requirement Analysis:
   Entry Criteria :  Requirements Specification,Application architectural,Along with above documents
Acceptance criteria should be well defined. 
   Activities : Prepare the list of questions or queries and get resolved from Business Analyst, System Architecture, Client, Technical
Manager/Lead etc.Make out the list for what all Types of Tests performed like Functional, Security, and Performance etc.
Deliverable : List of questions with all answers to be resolved from business.
2.Test Planning:
   Entry Criteria : Requirements Documents.Automation feasibility report.
   Activities     : Define scope and objectives.Decide testing types and tools.Estimate effort and cost.Assign roles and responsibilities.
                    Plan schedule and timelines.
  Deliverable   : Test Plan or Test strategy document.Testing Effort.estimation document. 
3.Test Case Development:
  Entry Criteria  : Requirements Documents.Automation feasibility report.
  Activities      : Preparation of test cases.Preparation of test automation scripts (if required).Re-requisite test data preparation for executing test cases.
  Deliverable     : Test cases.Test data.Test Automation Scripts.
4.Test Environment Setup:
  Entry Criteria : Test Plan is available.Smoke Test cases are available.Test data is available.
  Activities     : Analyze the requirements and prepare the list of Software & hardware required to set up test environment.
                  Setup the test environment.Once the Test Environment is setup execute the Smoke test cases to check the readiness of the test environment.
  Deliverable    : Test Environment will be ready with test data.Result of Smoke Test cases.

5.Test Execution:
  Entry Criteria : Test Plan or Test strategy document.Test cases.Test data.
  Activities     : Based on test planning execute the test cases.Mark status of test cases like Passed, Failed, Blocked, Not Run etc.
  Deliverable    : Test case execution report.Defect report.
6.Test Cycle Closure: 
  Entry Criteria : Test case execution is completed Test case Execution report Defect report.
  Activities     : Evaluate cycle completion criteria based on Test coverage,Quality, Cost, Time, Critical Business Objectives, and
                   Software Prepare test metrics based on the above parameters.Prepare Test closure report Share best practices for any
                   similar projects in future.
  Deliverable    : Test Closure report Test metrics.


 






